The Joe Rogan experience.
Independent times when I ran out of food and I've literally tracked wolves
and taken food away from them when they've killed caribou.
What? Yeah. How many wolves were there?
One time, there was a lone Wolf that got a caribou just ahead of me.
He didn't have time to do anything except got it for me. Literally.
That's what they start eating is the guts.
And he had opened up its belly and pulled the guts out and the whole caribou is
there. Wow. Um, what happened that day? Um,
I was really hungry. I had, we had run out of food.
I was out there with my ex wife and we had,
and your kids had one baby at the time.
So you're out there with a baby and you don't have any food? The.
Baby was fine. She was nursing. Um, your wife doesn't have any food. Yeah.
Um, well we always had something to eat, just not enough,
but I never,
ever have been out there when I didn't have something to eat every single day.
Some days it was just one rabbit.
Some days it was just one time again,
which is very little food, but I've always been able to get something to eat.
But this particular year, it was kind of early on. This was the winter of 2006,
2007. I hadn't been out there that long, made a miscalculation.
I was counting on caribou shown up because so far I'd always seen a lot of
Caribbean, the winter that one of the income,
if I had known I could have prevented the situation,
but we had taken one moose in the fall. I'd killed a moose in September.
And I thought, man, we've got 500 pounds of me. We're set.
The caribou will come later in the winter,
but it's amazing how much meat you can eat when you're not eating much of
anything else.
And all that I was eating at that time really was meat fat and maybe a
cup of berries a day, you know, that I had gathered in the fall and froze. Um,
so the most we went through that pretty fast, uh,
found out that two adults can eat a large bull moose in three months.
If that's all you got to eat,
I've eaten by myself of a large bull moose in six months.
Yeah.
For people that don't know a large bull moose is about 2000 pounds.
I don't think they're quite that big with it. Probably 1500 pounds.
You probably get 500 pounds.
The Yukon moose is like 2000 pounds.
People, people exaggerate.
They exaggerated a lot of things, Joe. So, but I've heard some like a 60.
Inch bull. How much, how much has that other guy.
Against something like that? What that bowl was? It was about 60 inch. Oh,
that one was actually 57.
If I remember, I don't pay too much attention to the exact measurements, but.
I think when the range of 1500 pounds, which is like, what,
how many pounds of meat you think that is?
Uh, I would guess that you probably are getting five, 600 pounds of meat.
Are you.
Um,
taking the femurs and getting bone marrow out of them and doing all that jazz?
Yeah.
Oh yeah. That's, that's really part of,
of my diet when I'm living off an animal is, um,
I like variety and they analyze a ton of variety in it.
One caribou will give you so many different options in
terms of food. If you know how to utilize it, I've eaten everything.
I have a caribou except the poop.
Literally you can even eat part of the antlers when they're oh yeah.
In the spring, when they're growing, they're soft on the end,
it's like a pickle. You scan them,
you take the velvet off in the last inch or two. It's just,
it's got the consistency of a pickle.
They're great. Rarely eat it raw. Yeah.
I eat a lot animals. Right? A lot of parts of it, caribou raw. But anyway,
you get a lot of variety. Cause you eat all the Oregon's eat the eyes,
eat the brain, eat the liver, the brain.
Spinal cord. Whoa. Like.
I said, I've eaten everything except the poop out of a care. But literally,
I mean, you can, even the cartilage,
you can get all kinds of variety and it's nutritious. It's good for you. I mean,
I learned about all this from the old people that used to eat this way.
I went to, I would have been reluctant to eat certain things.
If I hadn't been educated by other people that you can do
this, I was talking to this nine year old woman in Fairbanks, you know?
And I asked her, so you eat the brains. Cause I'm thinking, you know,
mad cow disease. Freons she's like, oh yeah, the brains are great.
And then I did a little research.
They've never found prion disease in Alaska in any of the animals up there.
So I was like, okay. I started in the brain.
That's an issue. That's happening more and more, uh, here in the lower 48,
you're getting a lot of CWD, which is another prion disease. Very scary stuff.
You know, it's a,
there's parts of Wisconsin where my friend Doug during lives where, you know,
50% of the deer, they,
they test test positive for CWD. Yeah.
Which is a real fatal disease. And it hasn't made the jump to humans yet,
but they're very concerned.
And you know, this is, um, coming from the deer,
like you said, there's a lot of deer and where deer and moose live together,
the moose get it. We don't have any deer. So other than moose and caribou,
that's why we don't have the prebiotic disease, no deer up there at all. Well,
most are a deer caribou or deer,
but we don't have anything other than most than black tail,
which those are much further south down to Southeast Alaska.
I don't know their exact range, but nowhere near where I am. That's interesting.
It's too harsh of a country. It doesn't not the right habitat.
Wow. So you,
when you take this caribou away from the Wolf, how does that go down?
What happened that day was a thanks for, remind me, I've forgotten that story.
That's what we were talking about. Uh, I had a trail up the mountain.
There's a lot of snow in the winter, you know, two, three feet of snow.
So you gotta have pack trails to walk efficiently, pack them down,
snow shoes and stuff, and pretty much follow the same routes.
I'm following my trail to go up the mountain, looking for food that day.
And I came on there, there were no caribou around.
I couldn't find a caribou anywhere.
I didn't see caribou track for like months they're migratory.
And if they happen to migrate 10 miles away, I'm not going to see them.
That's out of my range.
I come on a track of one caribou. It's wounded, it's bleeding,
it's being chased by one Wolf and it crosses my trail.
So I start chasing. It was real fresh. It was snowing out. And I could tell it,
this is just happened. This injured caribou,
this Wolf is chasing it up this mountain. That right ahead of me,
I got to follow this. So you have a rival. Yeah. Yeah. My rifled,
my constant companion. I mean
like that rifle goes just about everywhere I go up there. So, uh,
I start just jogging up the mountain as fast so I can go it's 5,000 foot
mountain. And this, this caribou is wounded pretty.
Bailey's bleeding almost continuously, you know?
And it's clear to me that if he doesn't make it over the top
of that mountain, this Wolf's going to get him. I mean,
going down the other side, I don't know.
But this Wolf has a good chance of getting this caribou.
This is usually the way they ha they injure them and it takes time.
It's not like they just run up and knock them down, you know,
usually hamstring them. Right? Yeah. They they'll jump on their back.
They'll they? Um, I see a lot of them injured on the,
the big muscle right here on the back legs. That what you mean?
The hamstring that right in here. Yeah. Yeah. They'll get them in there.
You find a lot of caribou injured, real bad that get away.
They get away with big pieces of hide, ripped off of 'em.
I killed a caribou once that only had two good legs.
It couldn't even walk anymore. Wow. But anyway, uh,
I start chasing them up the hill to kind of zigzagging up the hill.
And this caribou obviously doesn't know this mountain.
It doesn't know where it's going.
It heads in a direction where there's some cliffs on the other side of this
Ridge and I'm getting real hopeful at this
point. And uh,
I still haven't seen them there they're ahead of me on the mountain and sure
enough, the tracks come right up to the edge of the cliff,
both the caribou and the Wolf and go right over the top of the cliff.
And I'm like, there's no way that caribou survived getting down.
Cause I know this mountain, like the back of my hand and uh,
I just sat down there and I listened and I sat there at top of the cliff
and sure enough, it's real quiet out there in the winter. The Arctic.
Is just like dead silent. And I start hearing.
The crunching in the snow of this Wolf and he's down in the ravine and he knows
I'm up there. He can sense that I'm up there at the top of the cliff.
And he wants to, to bug out of there at that point.
And he just walked up the other side of the ravine.
I'm looking across the ravine and I see the Wolf going up and I know, Hey,
that curb was down in that ravine somewhere. So he's just getting away from you.
Yeah.
Did they already know you by then? Because you,
you had shot quite a few wolves, right? You.
Had trapped a few. I shot a, not tons, but we.
Shot a few on the show that one time on the lake where it's frozen and.
Yeah, th I didn't have a care man with me.
That was actually that story was told on the show.
And I documented it a little bit,
as much as I could with my little camera at the time. Um,
that day I shot three walls, but that was a very unusual situation. That was,
those worlds were actually trying to get me, which is almost unheard of. Um,
but this was years before that this Wolf and like almost every other Wolf
encounter I've ever had. Every other Wolf encounter I've ever had.
The Wolf wants nothing to do with you. I mean,
the Wolf knows I'm dangerous and.
Well, do they know you're dangerous?
Are they having any interactions with other humans wolves?
No. This all across north America,
I've only been able to find two documented bone of fighty
cases where wolves have killed humans in north American, recent times.
There was this one guy, young guy up in Saskatchewan several years ago.
There was one woman in Alaska apparently was killed by wills.
It almost never happens. Um,
they just know that people are dangerous to have been persecuted. I mean,
there were bounties on walls. I think it's in their DNA now, you know.
All wild animals, grizzly bears, they.
Don't want anything to do with people 99.9% of the time.
It's interesting you saying that grizzly bears where they're hunted don't want
to have anything to do with people, right.
They're having a real problem with grizzly bears in places like Montana,
where they don't hunt them. Right. Where they don't have any fear. Many,
many generations have no fear of human beings.
And you're getting a lot of Mallinckrodt.
Yeah. I wouldn't be crazy about walking out in a national park where you're not
allowed to bring a gun.
Well, my Montana in particular there's they have a lot.
But in this case, the Wolf wanted out of there, it walked up.
The other side of the ravine. I watched it, it was about three,
400 yards from me when he got up to the top of the Ridge, he stopped way,
way up, high above.
I remember looking at him through binoculars or maybe it was the scope of my
rifle. I just remember him giving a yacht.
He laid down on the ground when he knew he was safe, way up there.
And he just gave a yawn and I could see his tongue. It was just like a dog.
I could see him give this yawn.
Like he had just climbed up this big mountain in about 10 minutes, you know?
So I just walked around. The cliff, went down in there, got that caribou.
I actually made a backpack out of his rib cage carry at home. And, uh,
it was called, it was like 25 below. It was, that was pretty brutal.
Getting that thing back to the camp from up on the mountain there.
How heavy was it? Oh, I don't know a lot of things. I don't way,
but I'd say a caribou like that probably weighs about 250 pounds.
Something like that. You know,
I obviously don't take all of that weight at one time with me.
I've carried as much as I can. Did you.
Have a backpack that like a pack frame? I had a frame.
And I just stuffed everything in the room.
I remember it was so cold and I was so tired up there running up this mountain.
The, when it's dark, it's dark up Delta. There's no sun in the winter. Um,
I just remember getting the head off that thing,
throwing the legs and stuff in the,
in the rib cage and throwing it onto that frame I had,
and it was all inside of the big rib cage.
Still had the skin on it and everything.
It was the Wolf watching the whole time he was up on top of the Mount. I didn't,
I wasn't paying close attention to him after that.
And how long he hung out up there.
I would think that you would want to keep an eye on that.
He knows you're stealing.
Other times it wolves.
I spent lot, a lot of times around on the walls. There's a lot of times when.
The snow conditions are just right, you can actually keep up with walls.
Believe it or not. I've stayed with wolves all day long,
going eight or 10 miles. When the snow is deep enough,
they start walking single file in every Wolf, in the pack,
steps in exactly the same track and their stride.
When they slow down to a walk like that is just right for me.
I can step right in their tracks. I don't even need snowshoes. Wow.
If there's less snow, you can't, you can't keep up with a Wolf. You know, they,
their normal gate they're trotting. You can't even come close to that speed.
But when the snow gets deep and they get single file, if you're in good shape,
you can jog behind walls all day long. And I followed walls,
I followed a pack of 12 walls. One time, eight or 10 miles.
They were hunting caribou right in front of me. Um,
there was another time I remember taking caribou meat away from a pack of
wolves, which I didn't even see they'd killed the caribou, but you know,
there's a lot of brush and different stuff around.
I discovered it because Ravens flew up off it.
I went over there and judging by the tracks.
There are half a dozen walls around. I took that caribou that time,
brought it home and ate it. Um,
but I had a lot of interactions over the years with the wolves and I never had
wolves act aggressive to me. I've had a Mac curious,
I've had a Mac scared. I've had them act in different.
I never had wolves act aggressive to me until that time. January, 2012,
when a pack of 20 wolves literally took after me out on the lake.
And I did shoot three of those wolves.
What was that about? Why do you think they were taken after you?
Um, it was a very unusual situation. First of all,
there were 20 walls in one place that's unheard of up there.
That's totally unheard of the largest pack of wolves I've ever
heard account of that far.
North was 17 walls and that was back in the 1970s.
And usually there's five, six wolves in a pack up there. It's real hungry.
Country's hard for them to feed themselves at the pack gets bigger than that.
They have to split up, go somewhere new. But, um,
I don't know what happened that year. I don't know if two packs combined,
I don't know if the pack just grew to that size, but it was unheard of. Anyway,
I'm up on a mountain. I looked down at the lake. It's in January.
It's just Twilight in the middle of the day.
I see this big brown spot on the ice. I'm like, what the hell is that?
It's like out in front of my cabin, about 500 yards, big brown spot. First.
I thought it was water overflow that comes up through the ice.
Sometimes when you get a crack,
get out the binoculars I'm looking and holy cow,
that's a giant pack of wolves that just took something on the lake.
I can see like one of those breaking off,
one of them's breaking off and then coming back over and I,
I realize what's going on there. There was very little snow that year,
even though it was January,
it had been cold since September by the very low precipitation,
there was only about maybe four or five inches of snow.
So I could literally run down the mountain.
I was down at the lake within 20 minutes and I went right to my
cabin and got my camera. I got my tripod. I'm like, this is phenomenal.
I got to document this.
And I start walking across the lake out to where they are to get pictures of
this. So I get about 350 yards from these walls.
I still don't know what the animal is that they got there. And you know,
I can hear him. You can hear bones break in his stuff, the walls, you know,
it's just amazing. Yeah.
And I start taking pictures and I run out of batteries.
I'm like, oh. I ran out of batteries.
So I got to go back to the cabin. That's like 150 yards behind me, you know?
And, um, I turned around,
I started walking back to the cabin when I get about 30 yards or so from the
cabin,
I look back over my shoulder and the whole pack of wolves is racing across the
lake straight toward me. I'd never seen anything like it.
I sprinted like Jesse Owens through the door, that cabin,
I was only 30 yards from it. I turned it,
I looked back out the window and these wolves came right up into my yard.
They were 50 yards from the front door, 20 wolves. Whoa. Yeah.
Like this is unheard of bowls are usually high tail and out of there when they,
so, uh, I get my new batteries.
I get the camera set back up.
I go back out by the time I get back out in the yard,
they're back over at this thing. They've killed like 500 yards away.
And I want to get more pictures of this. I got my rifle too. Of course.
So I start heading back over when I get about 350 yards and them,
I start taking more pictures. I got a great picture. You can pull it up.
Maybe I'm going to see that it's in the notes section on my Facebook pages,
a story and unusual occurrence with the wolves. Anyway, they're all eaten.
And I start taking pictures again.
And after I take some pictures,
first one and two, then three, the walls. They they're like, I can see,
they stop eating. And they're looking at Villa 350 yards away,
but I can just see that they notice that I'm back out there on the lake and
they're sizing me up kind of.
And then I see some of them are just really slowly moving toward me,
like walking a few steps and stop. And I'm thinking, Hm, yeah,
I got my rifle and everything, but there's a lot of wolves there.
How do I know they're going to stop when I start shooting? You know?
So I decided to maybe it's best just make a slow retreat.
And I started backing up and walking back toward the cabin and
the wolves.
It looked like they were slowly walking towards me as I'm walking toward the
cabin. When I got about, if I remember right,
it was a hundred yards from the cabin.
Those wolves started galloping. They just,
all 20 wolves started galloping towards me. Oh.
Christ. Oh, wow. Look at this picture. Yeah, those.
Wolves right there, they start galloping towards me.
And I dropped that tripod right there. Where, where I was. And I, you know,
I was a hundred yards from the cabin.
They were 400 yards from me and I ran as fast as I could for the cabin because
I thought, Hey, if I start shooting, what if they don't stop the ones?
It's 20 Wells there. I got four or five rounds of if I had one in the chamber,
I had five rounds of ammunition there. Um, I ran for the Canon.
I go in the door and just like the time before they're right there in my front
yard, I look out in there, 50 yards away. They're all milling around 20 wills.
I'm like, Jesus Christ. This is amazing. I've never seen like this.
So, but I'm safe and sound in the cabin.
So I just collect my thoughts. I'm like, man,
it's time to teach these walls a lesson. If I let those walls leave,
now they're going to think I'm just food. I run away when they see me.
Right. That, I mean, I could be out there in the night in the dark,
not even know, wolves are around, get ambushed by him or something.
So I had to shoot some of those walls.
So I loaded up gut made sure everything was perfectly right. You know, um,
put some extra ammunition in my pocket, checked everything out. Okay.
I'm set to go out there with this gun and,
and talk to these walls about this situation. And, uh,
I go back out and they were back at the moose. It,
it turned out to be a moose they'd killed.
They were back over there at the kill. So I thought, well,
it'd be a lot safer if I shot from close to the cabin, you know,
rather than go out there on the open ice.
So I'll just see if I can log them back over here.
And I started running back and forth right in front of my cabin on the,
on the ice just to get their attention. And sure enough,
it worked that whole pack of 20 wolves started racing across that lake at a full
Gallop straight toward me. I couldn't believe it.
I was right in front of my cabin.
I just run back and forth like 50 yards out to my little waterhole in the ice
and back to the cabinet a few times. And they just started running right at me.
So I sat right down there on the bank, on the shore, right. You know,
15 feet in front of my porch and started shooting.
I think if I remember the first one I hit was 264 yards.
I measured it all off the next day. It was kind of interesting.
Just checking out the tracks and seeing what had happened. I hit three of them.
Yeah.
What happened when one got hit?
Um, they stopped at the closest tracks to me were about 40 yards.
You know.
When it was happening, it was, it was happening so fast.
I was just sitting down, you know, braced shooting. I remember reloading.
After I shot five times, it all happened so fast. But then the next day,
when I had time, I went out there and looked all tracks and measured.
Everything is size up situation figured out where I'd hit different wolves and
stuff. And I wrote that all down.
That's what I was mentioning in the note section on my Facebook pays that story
I wanted when it was fresh in my mind to really have the details.
Cause I knew right then that something happened to me that doesn't really happen
to people. I mean, to get, have a pack of wolves come after you is, uh.
A very unusual occurred. You can read, you can read all over the place.
That wolves don't attack humans. You know, I've, I've read that many times.
But they have, they have, uh, at least historically,
historically the whole.
Little red riding hood.
That's all because they were trying to warn children about wolves. Now,
when you found these wolves and you like how,
when you start shooting and you hit one, did the other ones freak out?
Did they realize what's going on.
The summer? They started putting on the brakes. But like I said,
the first Wolf I hit was over 250 yards and it was 264 yards.
Something like that from me. And some of the tracks came about 40,
40 to 50 yards from me before they had stopped.
They were doing U-turn you could see in front of, they were all just.
Milling around when I was reloading.
I just remember seeing all these wolves milling around.
In front of me, like running around in circles. And I was like, holy cow.
And I'm reloading.
And I remember shooting one more time as they were headed away,
but they all took off. They headed into the woods.
And one of the walls that I had hit was peril, paraplegic,
but he was still going on two legs. So I ran in him. Yeah. I ran in the cat,
the other, the other two had just dropped immediately.
One of them is hit right in the head, but I ran in the,
and grabbed my 22 because I didn't want to put a big 30 out six hole in this.
This Walter was paraplegic. And um, I chased him down,
caught up with him, Sharma 22. Then I could hear all the other wolves, howl and,
and howl. And they're like, you know,
probably almost half mile away from me by then they were up in the woods on the
other side of the lake. And I just ran her. I ran over to that, uh,
what they had killed. And this was the first time I saw it.
It was a year and a half old bull moose. And it was still all there.
The legs were still on it. I got pictures of it and stuff.
They had just started eating it.
Not long before I started photographics was on your Facebook page. Um,
none of that moose, they put those on LBZ.
I think what's LBZ life-long zero. Oh,
when they showed that story, that was way back. You know,
that's like six years ago. That was one of my first stories.
That's a different moose. Okay. Charged by one, one out there. So.
So when you find the wolves that you did shoot and you know,
you've, you shot and killed.
Three of them. Yeah. Do you eat them?
You know, I ate some of those just cause I was low on food.
I don't like to eat Wolf meat. If I can help it.